I am Okuma Shigenobu from Saga prefecture,
born in “1838” Saga, I twice served as
prime minister of Japan in “1898” and
“1914”.
I organized the Progressive Party and founded
Waseda University.
After receiving a conventional education,
I turned to Western studies and took learning
English.
Following the Meiji Restoration in “1868”,
which reestablished the formal ruling authority
of the emperor, leaders of the Meiji government
broadened their base of support by adding
representation from my Saga domain.
My ability and courage soon brought me an
important role in government, at first specializing
in finance.
From “1869” to “1881” I was chiefly
responsible for modernizing and reorganizing
Japan’s fiscal system.
I proposed running elections as soon as possible,
encouraged convening a parliament, and the
British system of a cabinet responsible to
parliament be established.
My opinions and actions forced me out of the
government, but the movement for a constitution
gained great impetus.
In response to popular pressure, the emperor
promised that a constitution would be readied
by “1890”.
The document was completed and promulgated
a year earlier.
I formed a political party called the Kaishinto,
that was oriented toward English parliamentary
concepts.
Earlier, in 1882, I had founded in Tokyo what
soon after became known as Waseda University,
one of the two leading private universities
in Japan.
I retired from politics in 1907 to devote
all my time to Waseda, only to be recalled
as prime minister in 1914.
During that term Japan experienced a great
economic boom, partly as a result of the increased
trade brought by World War I.
In “1916” I, by then in ill health, resigned
and retired from politics.
I later returned to Waseda, and died there
in “1922”.
An estimated 300,000 people attended my funeral
in Tokyo's Hibiya Park.
I was posthumously conferred with the Collar
of the Order of the Chrysanthemum, the nation's
highest honor.
I was buried at the temple of Gokoku-ji in
Tokyo.
I believed Life is like a flowing river.
Youth is the source of the river and old age
is downstream.
I hope Japan has become a big and strong river
sending the world to unprecedented prosperity.